Add asynchronous backing guide (#788)
polkadot-developers/polkadot-docs: develop/parachains/maintenance/configure-asynchronous-backing.md

---
title: Configure Asynchronous Backing
description: Learn how to increase the efficiency and throughput of your parachain by configuring it to leverage asynchronous backing.
---

# Configure Parachain for Asynchronous Backing Compatibility

## Introduction

> This guide is relevant for Cumulus-based parachain projects started in 2023 or before, whose backing process is synchronous where parablocks can only be built on the latest relay chain block. Async backing allows collators to build parablocks on older relay chain blocks and create pipelines of multiple pending parablocks. This parallel block generation increases efficiency and throughput.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This guide applies to parachain projects based on Cumulus that started in 2023 or earlier, where the backing process is synchronous, allowing parablocks to be built only on the latest relay chain block. In contrast, async backing allows collators to build parablocks on older relay chain blocks and create pipelines of multiple pending parablocks. This parallel block generation increases efficiency and throughput.
```

!!!note

>     If starting a new parachain project, please use an async backing compatible template such as the [parachain template](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-sdk-parachain-template){target=\_blank}. The rollout process for async backing has three phases. Phases 1 and 2 below put new infrastructure in place. Then async backing is simply enabled in phase 3.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    When starting a new parachain project, please use an async backing-compatible template, such as the [parachain template](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-sdk-parachain-template){target=\_blank}. The rollout process for async backing has three phases. Phases 1 and 2 below put new infrastructure in place. Then async backing is enabled in phase 3.
```

>     If starting a new parachain project, please use an async backing compatible template such as the [parachain template](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-sdk-parachain-template){target=\_blank}. The rollout process for async backing has three phases. Phases 1 and 2 below put new infrastructure in place. Then we can simply turn on async backing in phase 3.

Reviewer 2: Please, avoid using `we` to stick to the grammar style of the docs. Could you check other instances (in case there are any)?

```suggestion
    If starting a new parachain project, please use an async backing compatible template such as the [parachain template](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-sdk-parachain-template){target=\_blank}. The rollout process for async backing has three phases. Phases 1 and 2 below put new infrastructure in place. Then async backing is simply enabled in phase 3.
```

## Prerequisite

> The relay chain needs to have async backing enabled so double-check that the relay chain configuration contains the following three parameters (especially when testing locally e.g. with [Zombienet](/develop/toolkit/parachains/spawn-chains/zombienet/get-started/){target=\_blank}):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The relay chain must have async backing enabled; therefore, double-check the runtime to verify that the following three parameters are included in the relay chain configuration (especially when testing locally with tools like [Zombienet](/develop/toolkit/parachains/spawn-chains/zombienet/get-started/){target=\_blank}):
```

```rust title="runtimes/relay/polkadot/src/genesis_config_presets.rs"
...
"async_backing_params": {
    "max_candidate_depth": 3,
    "allowed_ancestry_len": 2
},
...
```

> This can be found in the relay chain's runtime. You can see the Polkadot [`async_backing_params`](https://github.com/polkadot-fellows/runtimes/blob/d49a9f33d0ea85ce51c26c84a70b61624ec06901/relay/polkadot/src/genesis_config_presets.rs#L131-L134){target=\_blank} as an example. You also want to make sure that the `lookahead` in [`schedulerParams`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/cumulus_primitives_core/relay_chain/struct.SchedulerParams.html){target=\_blank} is set to `3`. This can be found by querying the [`scheduler_params`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/polkadot_runtime_parachains/configuration/struct.HostConfiguration.html#structfield.scheduler_params){target=\_blank} using the [`configuration.activeConfig()`](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/?rpc=wss%3A%2F%2Frpc-polkadot.helixstreet.io#/chainstate) query in Polkadot JS.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can see GitHub for an example of the Polkadot [`async_backing_params`](https://github.com/polkadot-fellows/runtimes/blob/d49a9f33d0ea85ce51c26c84a70b61624ec06901/relay/polkadot/src/genesis_config_presets.rs#L131-L134){target=\_blank} in use as part of the chain configuration. 

You must also ensure the `lookahead` in [`schedulerParams`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/cumulus_primitives_core/relay_chain/struct.SchedulerParams.html){target=\_blank} is set to `3`. You can verify the setting by querying the [`scheduler_params`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/polkadot_runtime_parachains/configuration/struct.HostConfiguration.html#structfield.scheduler_params){target=\_blank} using the [`configuration.activeConfig()`](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/?rpc=wss%3A%2F%2Frpc-polkadot.helixstreet.io#/chainstate) query in Polkadot JS.
```

> This can be found in the relay chain's runtime. You can see the Polkadot [`async_backing_params`](https://github.com/polkadot-fellows/runtimes/blob/d49a9f33d0ea85ce51c26c84a70b61624ec06901/relay/polkadot/src/genesis_config_presets.rs#L131-L134){target=\_blank} as an example. You also want to make sure that the `lookahead` in [`schedulerParams`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/cumulus_primitives_core/relay_chain/struct.SchedulerParams.html){target=\_blank} is set to `3`. This can be found by found by querying the [`scheduler_params`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/polkadot_runtime_parachains/configuration/struct.HostConfiguration.html#structfield.scheduler_params){target=\_blank} using the [`configuration.activeConfig()`](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/?rpc=wss%3A%2F%2Frpc-polkadot.helixstreet.io#/chainstate) query in Polkadot JS.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This can be found in the relay chain's runtime. You can see the Polkadot [`async_backing_params`](https://github.com/polkadot-fellows/runtimes/blob/d49a9f33d0ea85ce51c26c84a70b61624ec06901/relay/polkadot/src/genesis_config_presets.rs#L131-L134){target=\_blank} as an example. You also want to make sure that the `lookahead` in [`schedulerParams`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/cumulus_primitives_core/relay_chain/struct.SchedulerParams.html){target=\_blank} is set to `3`. This can be found by querying the [`scheduler_params`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/polkadot_runtime_parachains/configuration/struct.HostConfiguration.html#structfield.scheduler_params){target=\_blank} using the [`configuration.activeConfig()`](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/?rpc=wss%3A%2F%2Frpc-polkadot.helixstreet.io#/chainstate) query in Polkadot JS.
```

!!! warning 

>     The `lookahead` field must be set to 3; otherwise, parachain block times will degrade to worse than with sync backing!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If the `lookahead` field is not set to 3, parachain block times will degrade, resulting in worse performance than using synchronous backing.
```

## Phase 1 - Update Parachain Runtime

> This phase involves configuring your parachain's runtime `/runtime/src/lib.rs` to make use of async backing system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This phase involves configuring your parachain's runtime `/runtime/src/lib.rs` to utilize an async backing system.
```

> 1. Establish and ensure that constants for capacity ([`UNINCLUDED_SEGMENT_CAPACITY`](https://github.com/polkadot-fellows/runtimes/blob/d49a9f33d0ea85ce51c26c84a70b61624ec06901/system-parachains/constants/src/polkadot.rs#L42-L44){target=\_blank}) and velocity ([`BLOCK_PROCESSING_VELOCITY`](https://github.com/polkadot-fellows/runtimes/blob/d49a9f33d0ea85ce51c26c84a70b61624ec06901/system-parachains/constants/src/polkadot.rs#L45-L47){target=\_blank}) are both set to `1` in the runtime.

Reviewer: The use of the word "Establish" is throwing me off when trying to understand the action here. Is the user checking existing info to make sure it's correct or are they writing this code themselves?

- If checking existing code to make sure the values are correct, I would suggest something like "Verify the constants for capacity and velocity are both set..."
- If the user is writing this code, I would suggest something like "Define the constants for capacity and velocity, setting both to `1`...." 

Please look over your steps to determine which is more appropriate and then apply to the other instances of "Establish" as well.

Author: Thanks. Updated according to your feedback.

2. Establish and ensure the constant relay chain slot duration measured in milliseconds equal to `6000` in the runtime.

>     ```rust title="lib.rs"

Reviewer: Have you done code snippets yet? Using the file name in the title is excellent but, these code examples should be in snippet(s) rather than in the markdown. If you need help with creating or using snippets, please let me or Nico know. He's done a ton!

    // Maximum number of blocks simultaneously accepted by the runtime, not yet included into the
    // relay chain.
    pub const UNINCLUDED_SEGMENT_CAPACITY: u32 = 1;
    // How many parachain blocks are processed by the relay chain per parent. Limits the number of
    // blocks authored per slot.
    pub const BLOCK_PROCESSING_VELOCITY: u32 = 1;
    // Relay chain slot duration, in milliseconds.
    pub const RELAY_chain_SLOT_DURATION_MILLIS: u32 = 6000;
    ```

3. Establish constants [`MILLISECS_PER_BLOCK`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/parachains_common/constant.MILLISECS_PER_BLOCK.html){target=\_blank} and [`SLOT_DURATION`](https://github.com/polkadot-fellows/runtimes/blob/d49a9f33d0ea85ce51c26c84a70b61624ec06901/system-parachains/constants/src/lib.rs#L38-L40){target=\_blank} if not already present in the runtime.

>     ```rust

Reviewer 2: missing file title

        ...
        type CheckAssociatedRelayNumber = RelayNumberMonotonicallyIncreases;
        ...
    }
    ```

5. Configure [`pallet_aura`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/pallet_aura/index.html){target=\_blank} in the runtime.

    [`pallet_aura`]((https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/pallet_aura/index.html){target=\_blank}) implements Authority Round (Aura) - a deterministic [consensus](/polkadot-protocol/glossary/#consensus){target=\_blank} protocol where block production is limited to a rotating list of authorities that take turns creating blocks. [`pallet_aura`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/pallet_aura/index.html){target=\_blank} uses [`pallet_timestamp`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/pallet_timestamp/index.html){target=\_blank} to track consensus rounds (via [`slots`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/pallet_aura/pallet/trait.Config.html#associatedtype.SlotDuration){target=\_blank}).

    - Set [`AllowMultipleBlocksPerSlot`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/pallet_aura/pallet/trait.Config.html#associatedtype.AllowMultipleBlocksPerSlot){target=\_blank} to `false` 

>         - This will be set to `true` when we activate async backing in phase 3

Reviewer 2: Pls, rephrase to avoid using `we`

## Introduction

This guide is relevant for Cumulus-based parachain projects started in 2023 or before, whose backing process is synchronous where parablocks can only be built on the latest relay chain block. Async backing allows collators to build parablocks on older relay chain blocks and create pipelines of multiple pending parablocks. This parallel block generation increases efficiency and throughput.

!!!note
    If starting a new parachain project, please use an async backing compatible template such as 
    the [parachain template](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-sdk-parachain-template){target=\_blank}.
    The rollout process for async backing has three phases. Phases 1 and 2 below put new
    infrastructure in place. Then we can simply turn on async backing in phase 3.

## Prerequisite

The relay chain needs to have async backing enabled so double-check that the relay chain configuration contains the following three parameters (especially when testing locally e.g. with zombienet):

```rust title="runtimes/relay/polkadot/src/genesis_config_presets.rs"
"async_backing_params": {
    "max_candidate_depth": 3,
    "allowed_ancestry_len": 2
},
```

> This can be found in the relay chain's runtime. You can see the Polkadot [`async_backing_params`](https://github.com/polkadot-fellows/runtimes/blob/d49a9f33d0ea85ce51c26c84a70b61624ec06901/relay/polkadot/src/genesis_config_presets.rs#L131-L134){target=\_blank} as an example. You also want to make sure that the `lookahead` in [`schedulerParams`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/cumulus_primitives_core/relay_chain/struct.SchedulerParams.html){target=\_blank} is set to `3`. This can be found by found by querying the [`scheduler_params`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/polkadot_runtime_parachains/configuration/struct.HostConfiguration.html#structfield.scheduler_params){target=\_blank} using the [`configuration.activeConfig()`](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/?rpc=wss%3A%2F%2Frpc-polkadot.helixstreet.io#/chainstate) query in PolkadotJS.

Author: <img width="743" height="198" alt="Screenshot 2025-07-18 at 4 50 59 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/426dab95-472e-4351-98d9-93a458f65df7" />
hmm for me it takes me to chain state but the dev needs to explicitly select `configuration.activeConfig()` from the drop down.

> This can be found in the relay chain's runtime. You can see the Polkadot [`async_backing_params`](https://github.com/polkadot-fellows/runtimes/blob/d49a9f33d0ea85ce51c26c84a70b61624ec06901/relay/polkadot/src/genesis_config_presets.rs#L131-L134){target=\_blank} as an example. You also want to make sure that the `lookahead` in [`schedulerParams`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/cumulus_primitives_core/relay_chain/struct.SchedulerParams.html){target=\_blank} is set to `3`. This can be found by found by querying the [`scheduler_params`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/polkadot_runtime_parachains/configuration/struct.HostConfiguration.html#structfield.scheduler_params){target=\_blank} using the [`configuration.activeConfig()`](https://polkadot.js.org/apps/?rpc=wss%3A%2F%2Frpc-polkadot.helixstreet.io#/chainstate) query in PolkadotJS.

Reviewer 2: mmm maybe it was just a cache problem on my end, I just tried and worked! Cool, just ignore this comment

!!! warning 

>     `lookahead` must be set to 3, otherwise parachain block times will degrade to worse than with sync backing!

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    The `lookahead` field must be set to 3; otherwise, parachain block times will degrade to worse than with sync backing!
```

## Phase 1 - Update Parachain Runtime

This phase involves configuring your parachain's runtime `/runtime/src/lib.rs` to make use of async backing system.

> 1. Establish and ensure that constants for capacity ([`UNINCLUDED_SEGMENT_CAPACITY`](https://github.com/polkadot-fellows/runtimes/blob/d49a9f33d0ea85ce51c26c84a70b61624ec06901/system-parachains/constants/src/polkadot.rs#L42-L44){target=\_blank}) and velocity ([`BLOCK_PROCESSING_VELOCITY`](https://github.com/polkadot-fellows/runtimes/blob/d49a9f33d0ea85ce51c26c84a70b61624ec06901/system-parachains/constants/src/polkadot.rs#L45-L47){target=\_blank}) are both set to `1` in the runtime.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Establish and ensure that constants for capacity ([`UNINCLUDED_SEGMENT_CAPACITY`](https://github.com/polkadot-fellows/runtimes/blob/d49a9f33d0ea85ce51c26c84a70b61624ec06901/system-parachains/constants/src/polkadot.rs#L42-L44){target=\_blank}) and velocity ([`BLOCK_PROCESSING_VELOCITY`](https://github.com/polkadot-fellows/runtimes/blob/d49a9f33d0ea85ce51c26c84a70b61624ec06901/system-parachains/constants/src/polkadot.rs#L45-L47){target=\_blank}) are both set to `1` in the runtime.

```

2. Establish and ensure the constant relay chain slot duration measured in milliseconds equal to `6000` in the runtime.

    ```rust title="lib.rs"
    // Maximum number of blocks simultaneously accepted by the runtime, not yet included into the
    // relay chain.
    pub const UNINCLUDED_SEGMENT_CAPACITY: u32 = 1;
    // How many parachain blocks are processed by the relay chain per parent. Limits the number of
    // blocks authored per slot.
    pub const BLOCK_PROCESSING_VELOCITY: u32 = 1;
    // Relay chain slot duration, in milliseconds.
    pub const RELAY_chain_SLOT_DURATION_MILLIS: u32 = 6000;
    ```

3. Establish constants [`MILLISECS_PER_BLOCK`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/parachains_common/constant.MILLISECS_PER_BLOCK.html){target=\_blank} and [`SLOT_DURATION`](https://github.com/polkadot-fellows/runtimes/blob/d49a9f33d0ea85ce51c26c84a70b61624ec06901/system-parachains/constants/src/lib.rs#L38-L40){target=\_blank} if not already present in the runtime.

>     ```rust

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    ```rust title="lib.rs"
```

    // `SLOT_DURATION` is picked up by `pallet_timestamp` which is in turn picked
    // up by `pallet_aura` to implement `fn slot_duration()`.
    //
    // Change this to adjust the block time.
    pub const MILLISECS_PER_BLOCK: u64 = 12000;
    pub const SLOT_DURATION: u64 = MILLISECS_PER_BLOCK;
    ```

> 4. Configure `cumulus_pallet_parachain_system` in the runtime.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Configure [`cumulus_pallet_parachain_system`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/cumulus_pallet_parachain_system/index.html){target=\_blank} in the runtime.
```

    - Define a [`FixedVelocityConsensusHook`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/cumulus_pallet_aura_ext/consensus_hook/struct.FixedVelocityConsensusHook.html){target=\_blank} using our capacity, velocity, and relay slot duration constants. 
    - Use this to set the parachain system [`ConsensusHook`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/cumulus_pallet_parachain_system/pallet/trait.Config.html#associatedtype.ConsensusHook){target=\_blank} property.

>     ```rust title="lib.rs"

Reviewer 2: These 2 snippets below should be indented to match the position of the bullets points above

    type ConsensusHook = cumulus_pallet_aura_ext::FixedVelocityConsensusHook<
        Runtime,
        RELAY_CHAIN_SLOT_DURATION_MILLIS,
        BLOCK_PROCESSING_VELOCITY,
        UNINCLUDED_SEGMENT_CAPACITY,
    >;
    ```

    ```rust title="lib.rs"
    impl cumulus_pallet_parachain_system::Config for Runtime {

>         ..

Reviewer 2: This should be `...` (three periods instead of 2), could you please check other instances?

        type ConsensusHook = ConsensusHook;
        ..
    }
    ```

    Set the parachain system property [`CheckAssociatedRelayNumber`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/cumulus_pallet_parachain_system/pallet/trait.Config.html#associatedtype.CheckAssociatedRelayNumber){target=\_blank} to [`RelayNumberMonotonicallyIncreases`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/cumulus_pallet_parachain_system/struct.RelayNumberMonotonicallyIncreases.html){target=\_blank}

    ```rust title="lib.rs"
    impl cumulus_pallet_parachain_system::Config for Runtime {
        ..
        type CheckAssociatedRelayNumber = RelayNumberMonotonicallyIncreases;
        ..
    }
    ```

5. Configure [`pallet_aura`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/pallet_aura/index.html){target=\_blank} in the runtime.

>     [`pallet_aura`]((https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/pallet_aura/index.html){target=\_blank}) implements Authority Round (Aura) - a deterministic [consensus](https://docs.polkadot.com/polkadot-protocol/glossary/#consensus){target=\_blank} protocol where block production is limited to a rotating list of authorities that take turns creating blocks. [`pallet_aura`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/pallet_aura/index.html){target=\_blank} uses [`pallet_timestamp`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/pallet_timestamp/index.html){target=\_blank} to track consensus rounds (via [`slots`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/pallet_aura/pallet/trait.Config.html#associatedtype.SlotDuration){target=\_blank}).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    [`pallet_aura`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/pallet_aura/index.html){target=\_blank} implements Authority Round (Aura) - a deterministic [consensus](/polkadot-protocol/glossary/#consensus){target=\_blank} protocol where block production is limited to a rotating list of authorities that take turns creating blocks. `pallet_aura` uses [`pallet_timestamp`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/pallet_timestamp/index.html){target=\_blank} to track consensus rounds (via [`slots`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/pallet_aura/pallet/trait.Config.html#associatedtype.SlotDuration){target=\_blank}).
```

    - Set [`AllowMultipleBlocksPerSlot`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/pallet_aura/pallet/trait.Config.html#associatedtype.AllowMultipleBlocksPerSlot){target=\_blank} to `false` 

>         - We will set it to `true` when we activate async backing in phase 3

Reviewer 2: Can be this paraphrased so it does not use the word `we`?

    - Define [`pallet_aura::SlotDuration`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/pallet_aura/pallet/trait.Config.html#associatedtype.SlotDuration){target=\_blank} using our constant [`SLOT_DURATION`](https://github.com/polkadot-fellows/runtimes/blob/d49a9f33d0ea85ce51c26c84a70b61624ec06901/system-parachains/constants/src/lib.rs#L38-L40){target=\_blank}

>     ```rust title="lib.rs"

Reviewer 2: Indent this snippet to match with the bullet point above

        ..
    }
    ```

6. Update `sp_consensus_aura::AuraApi::slot_duration` in `sp_api::impl_runtime_apis` to match the constant [`SLOT_DURATION`](https://github.com/polkadot-fellows/runtimes/blob/d49a9f33d0ea85ce51c26c84a70b61624ec06901/system-parachains/constants/src/lib.rs#L38-L40){target=\_blank}

    ```rust title="apis.rs"
    fn impl_slot_duration() -> sp_consensus_aura::SlotDuration {
        sp_consensus_aura::SlotDuration::from_millis(SLOT_DURATION)
    }
    ```

7. Implement the [`AuraUnincludedSegmentApi`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/cumulus_primitives_aura/trait.AuraUnincludedSegmentApi.html){target=\_blank}, which allows the collator client to query its runtime to determine whether it should author a block.

    - Add the dependency [`cumulus-primitives-aura`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/cumulus_primitives_aura/index.html){target=\_blank} to the `runtime/Cargo.toml` file for your runtime

    ```rust title="Cargo.toml"
    ..
    cumulus-primitives-aura = { path = "../../../../primitives/aura", default-features = false }
    ..
    ```

    In the same file, add `"cumulus-primitives-aura/std",` to the `std` feature.

>     Inside the [`impl_runtime_apis!`]((https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-sdk/blob/6b17df5ae96f7970109ec3934c7d288f05baa23b/templates/parachain/runtime/src/apis.rs#L87-L91){target=\_blank}) block for your runtime, implement the [`cumulus_primitives_aura::AuraUnincludedSegmentApi`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/cumulus_primitives_aura/trait.AuraUnincludedSegmentApi.html){target=\_blank} as shown below.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Inside the [`impl_runtime_apis!`](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-sdk/blob/6b17df5ae96f7970109ec3934c7d288f05baa23b/templates/parachain/runtime/src/apis.rs#L87-L91){target=\_blank} block for your runtime, implement the [`cumulus_primitives_aura::AuraUnincludedSegmentApi`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/cumulus_primitives_aura/trait.AuraUnincludedSegmentApi.html){target=\_blank} as shown below.
```

    ```rust title="apis.rs"
	impl cumulus_primitives_aura::AuraUnincludedSegmentApi<Block> for Runtime {
		fn can_build_upon(
			included_hash: <Block as BlockT>::Hash,
			slot: cumulus_primitives_aura::Slot,
		) -> bool {
			Runtime::impl_can_build_upon(included_hash, slot)
		}
    ```

    !!!note

>         With a capacity of 1 we have an effective velocity of ½ even when velocity is configured to some larger value. This is because capacity will be filled after a single block is produced and will only be freed up after that block is included on the relay chain, which takes 2 relay blocks to accomplish. Thus with capacity 1 and velocity 1 we get the customary 12 second parachain block time.

Reviewer 2: Rephrase to get rid of `we`

    - Change the struct type from `BasicAuraParams` to `AuraParams`
    - In the [`para_client`](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-sdk/blob/6b17df5ae96f7970109ec3934c7d288f05baa23b/templates/parachain/node/src/service.rs#L206-L225){target=\_blank} field, pass in a cloned para client rather than the original
    - Add a [`para_backend`](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-sdk/blob/6b17df5ae96f7970109ec3934c7d288f05baa23b/templates/parachain/node/src/service.rs#L206-L225){target=\_blank} parameter after `para_client`, passing in our para backend
    - Provide a [`code_hash_provider`](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-sdk/blob/6b17df5ae96f7970109ec3934c7d288f05baa23b/templates/parachain/node/src/service.rs#L206-L225){target=\_blank} closure like that shown below
    - Increase [`authoring_duration`](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-sdk/blob/6b17df5ae96f7970109ec3934c7d288f05baa23b/templates/parachain/node/src/service.rs#L206-L225){target=\_blank} from 500 milliseconds to 2000

>     ```rust title="node/src/service.rs"

Reviewer 2: Indent this snippet to match with the snippet above

        ..
        code_hash_provider: move |block_hash| {
            client.code_at(block_hash).ok().map(|c| ValidationCode::from(c).hash())
        },
        ..
        authoring_duration: Duration::from_millis(2000),
        ..
    };
    ```

    !!!note
        Set [`authoring_duration`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/cumulus_client_consensus_aura/collators/slot_based/struct.Params.html#structfield.authoring_duration){target=\_blank} to whatever you want, taking your own hardware into account. But if the backer, who should be slower than you due to reading from disk, times out at two seconds your candidates will be rejected.

6. In [`start_consensus()`](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-sdk/blob/6b17df5ae96f7970109ec3934c7d288f05baa23b/templates/parachain/node/src/service.rs#L173) replace `basic_aura::run` with [`aura::run`](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-sdk/blob/6b17df5ae96f7970109ec3934c7d288f05baa23b/templates/parachain/node/src/service.rs#L226){target=\_blank}

    ```rust title="node/src/service.rs"
    let fut =
    aura::run::<Block, sp_consensus_aura::sr25519::AuthorityPair, _, _, _, _, _, _, _, _, _>(
    params,

>     );

Reviewer 2: Should this be formatted?

    task_manager.spawn_essential_handle().spawn("aura", None, fut);
    ```

## Phase 3 - Activate Async Backing

This phase consists of changes to your parachain's runtime that activate async backing feature.

1. Configure [`pallet_aura`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/pallet_aura/index.html){target=\_blank}, setting [`AllowMultipleBlocksPerSlot`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/pallet_aura/pallet/trait.Config.html#associatedtype.AllowMultipleBlocksPerSlot){target=\_blank} to true in

>    `runtime/src/lib.rs`.

Reviewer 2: Check break line pls

        type AllowMultipleBlocksPerSlot = ConstBool<true>;
        type SlotDuration = ConstU64<SLOT_DURATION>;
    }
    ```

2. Increase the maximum [`UNINCLUDED_SEGMENT_CAPACITY`](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-sdk/blob/6b17df5ae96f7970109ec3934c7d288f05baa23b/templates/parachain/runtime/src/lib.rs#L226-L235){target=\_blank} in `runtime/src/lib.rs`.

    ```rust title="runtime/src/lib.rs"
    mod async_backing_params {
        /// Maximum number of blocks simultaneously accepted by the Runtime, not yet included
        /// into the relay chain.
        pub(crate) const UNINCLUDED_SEGMENT_CAPACITY: u32 = 3;
        /// How many parachain blocks are processed by the relay chain per parent. Limits the
        /// number of blocks authored per slot.
        pub(crate) const BLOCK_PROCESSING_VELOCITY: u32 = 1;
        /// Relay chain slot duration, in milliseconds.
        pub(crate) const RELAY_CHAIN_SLOT_DURATION_MILLIS: u32 = 6000;
    }
    ```

3. Decrease [`MILLI_SECS_PER_BLOCK`](https://github.com/paritytech/polkadot-sdk/blob/6b17df5ae96f7970109ec3934c7d288f05baa23b/templates/parachain/runtime/src/lib.rs#L182-L194){target=\_blank} to 6000.

    !!!note

>         For a parachain which measures time in terms of its own block number rather than by relay block number it may be preferable to increase velocity. Changing block time may cause complications, requiring additional changes. See the section "Timing by Block Number".

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        For a parachain which measures time in terms of its own block number rather than by relay block number it may be preferable to increase velocity. Changing block time may cause complications, requiring additional changes. See the section [Timing by Block Number](#timing-by-block-number){target=\_blank}.
```

    ```rust title="runtime/src/lib.rs"
    impl pallet_timestamp::Config for Runtime {
        ..
        type MinimumPeriod = ConstU64<0>;
        ..
    }
    ```

## Timing by Block Number

With asynchronous backing it will be possible for parachains to opt for a block time of 6 seconds rather than 12 seconds. But modifying block duration isn't so simple for a parachain which was measuring time in terms of its own block number. It could result in expected and actual time not matching up, stalling the parachain.

One strategy to deal with this issue is to instead rely on relay chain block numbers for timing. Relay block number is kept track of by each parachain in [`pallet-parachain-system`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/cumulus_pallet_parachain_system/index.html){target=\_blank} with the

> storage value [`LastRelaychainBlockNumber`](https://paritytech.github.io/polkadot-sdk/master/cumulus_pallet_parachain_system/pallet/type.LastRelayChainBlockNumber.html){target=\_blank}. This value can be obtained and used wherever timing based on block number is needed.

Reviewer 2: Check line break
